I'm going to show you how to prepare a
whole fish for cooking whole the fish I
had today is a sea bass it's got a
lovely clear cornea or nice bright eye
it's got a nice light slime across and
the all the scales are nicely intact and
if I pull back the gill flap of the fish
you can see really nice pink bright
gills in there all good indicators that
this fish is really nice and fresh
it feels really nice and firm to the
touch as well with this type of fish it
actually needs to be scaled prior to
cooking and to do that safely the first
thing you need to do is trim off the
fins from the fish if you hold the fish
back you can see really nasty sharp
dorsal fin there and we stab yourself on
that you've know about it so you want to
remove those first so I'm going to use
my scissors just to trim those away
trimming the fins also makes it easier
to remove the scales as they don't get
in the way when the scales are flicked
away remove those and the other
particular skin fin that's particularly
sharp is actually at the base here you
need to really make sure that goes
because there's a really nasty sharp Bob
once those are trimmed away we then want
to scale the fish the utensil that I'm
using today is actually as fish scaler
but you can use the back of a knife to
do this and it's going to work out the
back of the fish to remove as many as I
possibly can taking particular care to
scale along the back of the fish and
also along the belly we need to make a
cut into the belly of the fish to gut it
so the it's important to remove as many
of those scales as you possibly can you
know when the scales are actually
removed or have come loose as the skin
actually suddenly feels that are silky
to the touch
rather than rough to the touch cutting
at an angle into the back of the head of
the fish the knife I've chosen for this
job today is a fitting knife so it's got
a nice bit of flexibility wipe the knife
on a clean cloth so two cuts one on
either side into the back of the head
and one through
at the underside of the fish to turn the
fish onto the back we're then going to
snap the head away and that is then
discarded we now are ready to actually
gut the fish now to do this you want to
find the vent end of the fish which is
about here on this particular species
you don't want to go too far near the
tail support the back of the fish with
your hand and then line the knife 9 the
knife up so they just actually parallel
with the fish so you can make one clean
cut and action up the belly like so if
you stick the knife in at an angle and
try run one clean cut it will go through
to the back of the fish once we've done
that we then need to remove all the guts
those can be discarded and we also need
to look for the bloodline of the fish
and the bloodline actually runs very
close to the back to the backbone and it
needs to be removed left behind it
actually will make the fish or the flesh
of the fish taste a little bit bitter
there's a bit of membrane in the way
here so I'm going to open that up with
my knife and then dig a little bit
closer to actually reveal that the
cleaning of that is pretty
straightforward it's quite a bony fish
so you might need to use a brush I've
got a special brush which it's called a
habit brush especially for this job but
something like a little nail brush
especially for the job something like
that just to wipe that away just clean
that out and then that fish will need a
really good rinse under the tap to make
sure that it's clean and ready to go
having prepared that fish I can show you
one that I have already prepared ready
to be cooked the fish that we have here
what I've also done with this is
actually trim off the tail because we're
going to be cooking it on papillote
style and we need to make sure that the
fish is completely clear of the paper
around the outside I've also made three
small cuts into the side of the face of
the flank of the fish so that the
flavors I'm going to add to this will
really get into the actual flesh itself
and I'm laying the fish on a big piece
of greaseproof which we've actually cut
into a heart shape my chosen flavorings
today and they're just a selection of
aromatics include a little bit of
Florence fennel I've also got a little
sprig of dill to go over the top and I'm
going to squeeze just a little bit of
lemon directly over the fish and putting
a tiny splash of Pernod on today you
need to be careful with something like
that it's quite a powerful flavor or
just a tablespoon of wine or a bit of
water in there just to create a bit of a
steam going to put on a little bit of
seasoning tiny bit of salt and pepper
and then the fish is basically ready to
be wrapped I'm going to fold the paper
over and then just turn the paper to
seal it really really well and twist and
press as you go and all the way around
taking care when you do this that the
fish is nicely encased and really
closely encased but there's also a
little bit of space between the edge of
the paper and the fish so that the air
can circulate around that really well to
make sure that you have a really even
cooking
having done that we're then ready to
cook the fish and I have one ready to
take out so I'm going to open that up
I know it's cooked the flesh has gone
white the skin will peel away really
well and it's now ready for serving and
that is how you prepare and cook a whole
fish